docs: Add jmx-trans alternative documentation (#13)
IBM/ibm-event-automation: event-streams/jmxtrans/README.md

# JmxTrans

[JMX Trans](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans) is a tool for collecting data from JMX endpoints of Java applications and sending it to other applications and services. 

The ability to deploy JmxTrans was deprecated in Event Streams 11.1.5 and removed in Event Streams 11.2.0. While the JmxTrans tool remains unsupported, this document provides high-level guidance on how to deploy it separately alongside an Event Streams instance.

> ## JmxTrans Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring JmxTrans by using the ConfigMap
```

Author: While we are using ConfigMap for this I don't think we need to say that in the title. I'm trying to keep the focus on what they user is trying to achieve, not how.

Reviewer: Updated suggestion to be consistent with our docs. 😃

> [JmxTrans documentation](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans/wiki) provides further guidance on defining [queries](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans/wiki/Queries) and [output writers](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans/wiki/OutputWriters). The configuration depends largely on what information is to be captured and where it must be sent. 

Reviewer: Could you please explain, how we are achieving this? 

We have removed JmxTrans, how could someone do it now actually? Is that why we are using ConfigMap for? 

What is the role of queries and output writers in this? 

You can use the ConfigMap to configure the JmxTrans, which can be deployed in Event Streams instances that does not support the JmxTrans.

The configuration can be deployed as a ConfigMap and then made available to the JmxTrans tool. An example ConfigMap definition is included as a reference. 

```yaml
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: <jmxtrans-config>
  namespace: <namespace>
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/name: jmx-trans
data:
  config.json: |
    '{
      "servers": [
        {
          "host": "<eventstreams-name>-kafka-<broker-id>.<eventstreams-name>-kafka-brokers",
          "port": 9999,
          "queries": [
            {
              "obj": "kafka.server:type=BrokerTopicMetrics,name=*",
              "attr": [
                "Count"
              ],
              "outputWriters": [
                {
                  "@class": "com.googlecode.jmxtrans.model.output.StdOutWriter"
                }
              ]
            }
          ]
        },
        // repeat for each broker
      ]
    }'
```

Where:

> - `<jmxtrans-config>` is the name of the ConfigMap
> - `<namespace>` is the namespace where Event Streams is installed
> - `<eventstreams-name>` is the name of the Event Streams instance
> - `<broker-id>` is Kafka broker ID (for example 0) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `<jmxtrans-config>` is the name of the ConfigMap.
- `<namespace>` is the namespace where Event Streams is installed.
- `<eventstreams-name>` is the name of the Event Streams instance.
- `<broker-id>` is Kafka broker ID (for example 0).
```

> ## JmxTrans Container Image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## JmxTrans container image
```

> JmxTrans is a Java application, so a container image that includes a Java runtime and the JmxTrans tool is needed to deploy it on Kubernetes environments. JmxTrans does not support Java 17 yet, so Java 11 is required. We recommend that you build a custom image that include a Java runtime and the JmxTrans tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JmxTrans is a Java application. This means that a container image, which includes a Java runtime and the JmxTrans tool, is needed to deploy the application on Kubernetes environments. Build a custom image that include a Java runtime and the JmxTrans tool.

**Important:** JmxTrans only supports Java 11.
```

Reviewer: > JmxTrans does not support Java 17 yet, so Java 11 is required.

This line in its current position doesn't add any value to the paragraph. Should this be modified?

> > Note: Event Streams 11.1.6 (and earlier) included a container image for running the JmxTrans tool. For example, `cp.icr.io/cp/ibm-eventstreams-jmxtrans@sha256:c43965013d22d3227cf7c1bf1211d59b0595ce6d535ab3fab8e7c80694417f76`. This image is no longer maintained and does not receive security updates. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Event Streams 11.1.6 (and earlier) included a container image for running the JmxTrans tool. For example, `cp.icr.io/cp/ibm-eventstreams-jmxtrans@sha256:c43965013d22d3227cf7c1bf1211d59b0595ce6d535ab3fab8e7c80694417f76`. This container image is no longer maintained and does not receive security updates. 
```

              valueFrom:
                secretKeyRef:
                  name: <es-name>-kafka-jmx
                  key: jmx-password
            - name: JMXTRANS_LOGGING_LEVEL
              value: INFO
          securityContext:
            capabilities:
              drop:
                - ALL
            privileged: false
            runAsNonRoot: true
            readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
            allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
          imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
          volumeMounts:
            - name: strimzi-tmp
              mountPath: /tmp
            - name: jmx-config
              mountPath: /var/lib/jmxtrans
          terminationMessagePolicy: File
          image: >-
            <image-registry>/<image-name>:<image-tag>
      volumes:
        - name: strimzi-tmp
          emptyDir:
            medium: Memory
            sizeLimit: 30Mi
        - name: jmx-config
          configMap:
            name: <jmxtrans-config>
            defaultMode: 420
      dnsPolicy: ClusterFirst
  strategy:
    type: RollingUpdate
    rollingUpdate:
      maxUnavailable: 0
      maxSurge: 1
  revisionHistoryLimit: 10
  progressDeadlineSeconds: 600
```

Where:

> - `<es-name>` is the name of the Event Streams instance
> - `<jmxtrans-config>` is the name of the JmxTrans ConfigMap
> - `<image-registry>` is the name of the image registry
> - `<image-name>` is the name of the JmxTrans image
> - `<image-tag>` is the tag for the JmxTrans image
> - `<image-pull-secret>` is the name of the image pull secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `<es-name>` is the name of the Event Streams instance.
- `<jmxtrans-config>` is the name of the JmxTrans ConfigMap.
- `<image-registry>` is the name of the image registry.
- `<image-name>` is the name of the JmxTrans image.
- `<image-tag>` is the tag for the JmxTrans image.
- `<image-pull-secret>` is the name of the image pull secret.
```

> > if the Kafka JMX port is not configured with security, you can remove the environment variables STRIMZI_JMX_USERNAME and STRIMZI_JMX_PASSWORD from the definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** If the Kafka JMX port is not configured with security, remove the environment variables `STRIMZI_JMX_USERNAME` and `STRIMZI_JMX_PASSWORD` from the definition.
```

# JmxTrans

[JMX Trans](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans) is a tool for collecting data from JMX endpoints of Java applications and sending it to other applications and services. 

The ability to deploy JmxTrans was deprecated in Event Streams 11.1.5 and removed in Event Streams 11.2.0. While the JmxTrans tool remains unsupported, this document provides high-level guidance on how to deploy it separately alongside an Event Streams instance.

> 

Author: updated with some minor changes in next commit.

## JmxTrans Configuration

[JmxTrans documentation](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans/wiki) provides further guidance on defining [queries](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans/wiki/Queries) and [output writers](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans/wiki/OutputWriters). The configuration depends largely on what information is to be captured and where it must be sent. 

> The configuration can be deployed as a ConfigMap and then made available to the JmxTrans tool. An example ConfigMap definition is included as a reference. 

Author: fixed in next commit.

              ],
              "outputWriters": [
                {
                  "@class": "com.googlecode.jmxtrans.model.output.StdOutWriter"
                }
              ]
            }
          ]
        },
        // repeat for each broker
      ]
    }'
```

Where:
- `<jmxtrans-config>` is the name of the ConfigMap.
- `<namespace>` is the namespace where Event Streams is installed.
- `<eventstreams-name>` is the name of the Event Streams instance.
- `<broker-id>` is Kafka broker ID (for example 0).

## JmxTrans container image

JmxTrans is a Java application. This means that a container image, which includes a Java runtime and the JmxTrans tool, is needed to deploy the application on Kubernetes environments. Build a custom image that include a Java runtime and the JmxTrans tool.

**Important:** JmxTrans only supports Java 11.

**Note:** Event Streams 11.1.6 (and earlier) included a container image for running the JmxTrans tool. For example, `cp.icr.io/cp/ibm-eventstreams-jmxtrans@sha256:c43965013d22d3227cf7c1bf1211d59b0595ce6d535ab3fab8e7c80694417f76`. This container image is no longer maintained and does not receive security updates. 

### Custom JmxTrans image

> Build a container image that includes Java 11 runtime and the JmxTrans tool. An example [Dockerfile](./Dockerfile) to build such an image is provided as a reference. 

Author: can we say this is for reference but they can make changes to this if they wish to

> You can build and push the container image by using these commands:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can build and push the container image by running the following commands:
```

```
docker build -t <image-registry>/<image-name>:<image-tag> .
docker push <image-registry>/<image-name>:<image-tag>
```

## JmxTrans Deployment

> Create a deployment with the JmxTrans image and mount the configuration that is defined in the ConfigMap. An example deployment definition is included as a reference.

Author: I would like to indicate this is an example on how to do it.. and not like a specific instruction they must follow, like we do in our docs.. The reason we are putting this info here instead of our documentation is that this is not really a supported capability.

> Create a deployment with the JmxTrans image and mount the configuration that is defined in the ConfigMap. An example deployment definition is included as a reference.

Reviewer: updated my suggestion.

# JmxTrans

> [JMX Trans](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans) is a tool for collecting data from JMX endpoints of Java applications and sending it to other applications and services. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[JmxTrans](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans) is a tool for collecting data from JMX endpoints of Java applications and sending it to other applications and services. 
```

# JmxTrans

[JMX Trans](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans) is a tool for collecting data from JMX endpoints of Java applications and sending it to other applications and services. 

The ability to deploy JmxTrans was deprecated in Event Streams 11.1.5 and removed in Event Streams 11.2.0. While the JmxTrans tool remains unsupported, this document provides high-level guidance on how to deploy it separately alongside an Event Streams instance.

To configure [JmxTrans](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans/wiki) with Event Streams, complete the following steps:
1. Create a ConfigMap for JmxTrans configuration.
2. Build a container image that includes Java 11 runtime and the JmxTrans tool.

> 3. Deploy JmxTrans by using the configmap and the container image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Deploy JmxTrans by using the ConfigMap and the container image.
```
